A string is a sequence of characters.

in Python, the index is an offset from the beginning of the string, and the offset of the first letter
is zero.

A lot of computations involve processing a string one character at a time. Often
they start at the beginning, select each character in turn, do something to it, and
continue until the end. This pattern of processing is called a traversal.

A segment of a string is called a slice.

An empty string contains no characters and has length 0, but other than that, it
is the same as any other string.

The reason for the error is that strings are immutable, which means you can’t
change an existing string. The best you can do is create a new string that is a
variation on the original.

Python does not handle uppercase and lowercase letters the same way that people
do. All the uppercase letters come before all the lowercase letters.

Strings are an example of Python objects. An object contains both data (the actual
string itself) and methods, which are effectively functions that are built into the
object and are available to any instance of the object.

Python has a function called dir which lists the methods available for an object.

While the dir function lists the methods, and you can use help to get some simple
documentation on a method, a better source of documentation for string methods
would be https://docs.python.org/library/stdtypes.html#string-methods.

Calling a method is similar to calling a function (it takes arguments and returns
a value) but the syntax is different. We call a method by appending the method
name to the variable name using the period as a delimiter.

This form of dot notation specifies the name of the method, upper, and the name
of the string to apply the method to, word. The empty parentheses indicate that
this method takes no argument.
A method call is called an invocation; in this case, we would say that we are
invoking upper on the word.
For example, there is a string method named find that searches for the position
of one string within another.

The find method can find substrings as well as characters.It can take as a second argument the index where it should start.

One common task is to remove white space (spaces, tabs, or newlines) from the beginning and end of a string using the strip method.

Some methods such as startswith return boolean values. You will note that startswith requires case to match, so sometimes we take a line and map it all to lowercase before we do any checking using the lower method.

The format operator, % allows us to construct strings, replacing parts of the strings
with the data stored in variables. When applied to integers, % is the modulus
operator. But when the first operand is a string, % is the format operator.
The first operand is the format string, which contains one or more format sequences
that specify how the second operand is formatted. The result is a string.

the format sequence %d means that the second operand should be formatted as an integer (“d” stands for “decimal”).

If there is more than one format sequence in the string, the second argument has to be a tuple.
Each format sequence is matched with an element of the tuple, in order.
The following example uses %d to format an integer, %g to format a floating-point
number (don’t ask why), and %s to format a string.

Glossary
counter A variable used to count something, usually initialized to zero and then
incremented.

empty string A string with no characters and length 0, represented by two quo-
tation marks.

format operator An operator, %, that takes a format string and a tuple and gen-
erates a string that includes the elements of the tuple formatted as specified
by the format string.

format sequence A sequence of characters in a format string, like %d, that spec-
ifies how a value should be formatted.

format string A string, used with the format operator, that contains format
sequences.

flag A boolean variable used to indicate whether a condition is true or false.

invocation A statement that calls a method.

immutable The property of a sequence whose items cannot be assigned.

index An integer value used to select an item in a sequence, such as a character
in a string.

item One of the values in a sequence.

method A function that is associated with an object and called using dot notation.

object Something a variable can refer to. For now, you can use “object” and
“value” interchangeably.

search A pattern of traversal that stops when it finds what it is looking for.

sequence An ordered set; that is, a set of values where each value is identified by
an integer index.

slice A part of a string specified by a range of indices.

traverse To iterate through the items in a sequence, performing a similar operation on each.


